Message-ID: <7325213.1075846158426.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 17 Jul 2000 00:45:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: celeste.roberts@enron.com
Subject: Re: Welcome Lunch for new hire analysts - Monday, July 17 from
 12:00 p.m. to 12:30 p.m.
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Celeste Roberts
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

Do you have an "alumni" list of analysts/associates in key positions at Enron?




Celeste Roberts@ECT
07/14/2000 03:05 PM
To: Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES
cc: Joseph W Sutton@Enron 
Subject: Welcome Lunch for new hire analysts - Monday, July 17 from 12:00 
p.m. to 12:30 p.m.

Steve

Thanks for stepping in and backing up for Joe Sutton on Wednesday.  I wanted 
to provide you with talking points for your speaking engagement with our new 
hire analysts during their orientation.  As a reminder, you are scheduled to 
speak over lunch on Monday, July 17 from 12:00 p.m. to 12:30 p.m. at the 
Doubletree Hotel in the LaSalle Ballroom.

Purpose of the luncheon:  Welcome the new hire analysts and impart to them 
our important this program is to Enron.

The analyst program is the ultimate pipeline of top entry-level talent, 
strategically deployed to meet anticipated business needs.  We look to this 
program to provide the company with our future business leader.
The program is a premier partner in providing exciting career challenges in 
areas of Finance, Origination/Structuring, Technology, Risk Management, Sales 
and Marketing, Trading, Valuation, and Accounting. 
The analyst program is also an avenue for providing the solid foundation of 
knowledge and skill needed in a competitive and dynamic global corporation.
We are very excited to have you on our team.  This is a very exciting company 
that is always reinventing itself.  The opportunities are endless.


There will be 75 new hire analysts attending this orientation.  Other than 
the recruiting process, this is their first impression of Enron and Senior 
Management.  The first week of their orientation will consist of 
presentations given by all business units/operating companies.  Weeks two and 
three will consist of technical training (i.e., modeling, valuation, working 
styles, communicating effectively and computer training).  Additionally, we 
have social events scheduled to allow them to network with peers and 
management.  Additionally, I have attached a calendar of the orientation for 
your review.

Steve, let me know if you require additional information.  Thank you for your 
support in our new hire orientation efforts.

Regards,
Celeste Roberts  

