Message-ID: <19781895.1075847577730.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 24 May 2001 10:20:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: michelle.cash@enron.com
Subject: Re: Conversation with Wanda Curry
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Michelle Cash
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

Yes.  Mary will discuss with you.


Michelle Cash @ ECT   05/24/2001 04:35 PM

To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@ENRON
cc: Mary Joyce/Enron@EnronXGate 

Subject: Re: Conversation with Wanda Curry  

Did we offer her a contract in any of the scenarios?  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------

Michelle Cash
Enron North America Corp.
1400 Smith Street, EB 3823
Houston, Texas  77002
(713) 853-6401
michelle.cash@enron.com

This message may contain confidential information that is protected by the 
attorney-client and/or work product privileges.



	Steven J Kean@ENRON
	05/23/2001 06:40 PM
		 
		 To: Michelle Cash/HOU/ECT@ECT, Mary Joyce/Enron@EnronXGate
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Conversation with Wanda Curry


	


Today, Mary Joyce and I met with Wanda Curry.  I realize that there is some 
concern that Wanda is a litigation threat, so for the purposes of soliciting 
legal advice and in anticipation of litigation, I am forwarding my 
recollection of today's meeting to you:

Wanda remains very emotional about what she perceives as "unfair and 
discriminatory" treatment.  When I asked her what she meant specifically (and 
did she intend those terms to have their legal meaning), she said that she 
did not intend the legal meaning of those terms;  rather, she, on  a 
"personal" level,  felt that the company should have treated her better.  She 
mentioned specifically: that no one ever called to explain in detail why she 
had not been further promoted at Enron or given more responsibility at Enron, 
that she viewed the job in Sally Beck's organization as unsatisfactory 
(because Sally should be treated as a peer, not a superior), and that she 
felt as though she did not have the support of upper management of the 
company.
I described several options for her:
Take the job she was offered in Sally Beck's organization;
Take the job in Rick Buy's organization (I said I would have to talk to Rick 
again)
Take severence under the standard package;
Take severence as a "business reorg" but consult with Enron for a period.
At first she seemed most interested in the fourth option (although she wasn't 
particularly happy about any of the  alternatives), but at the end of the 
discussion expressed interest in the second option.
A large part of the conversation involved discussion of Wanda's complaints 
about how she had been treated.  Most of Wanda's concerns focussed on jobs 
she did not get, or jobs she felt were taken from her, reduced scope of 
control, and the fact that she felt that her supervisors did not communicate 
with her sufficiently prior to or subsequent to making their decisions about 
job assignments.  I suggested that there were likely two sides to the story 
and that most of the problem was insufficient communication or perhaps some 
insensitivity.  I also pointed out that in all my conversations I heard good 
things about her performance and had no indication that anyone had treated 
her unfairly.
Wanda did complain about many things, but never once complained about her pay 
at Enron.

Mary, these are my recollections from today.  Do you have anything to add?



