Message-ID: <30248409.1075847621081.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 14 Mar 2001 00:03:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: linda.robertson@enron.com
Subject: Re: Andrew Lundquist
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Linda Robertson
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

Your assessment makes perfect sense to me.  What do you think about having 
Nels make the call to Lundquist just to find out what his status is, what he 
might look for when his current assignment is over, etc.  (obviously without 
identifying us -- presumably Nels would have reason to talk to him anyway in 
the normal course of business)?  I am not wedded to the idea but am inclined 
toward at least getting the information, unless you see a problem.



	Linda Robertson
	03/13/2001 02:16 PM
		 
		 To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron, Richard Shapiro/NA/Enron@Enron
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Andrew Lundquist

I got your message about Andrew.  He would be an excellent catch.  However, I 
see a couple of significant problems.  My guess is that Andrew is too senior 
for this position, particularly after having chaired the Cheney task force.  
Also, I would not anticipate that he would be available for several months, 
if then.  We should fill this position immediately.  We are already missing 
opportunities because this position is vacant. 

As for our search, using Korn Ferry, I have narrowed the field to two very 
good candidates.   I am setting up time for Rick to interview these 
candidates next Monday.  The first candidate is Drew Maloney with Rep. Tom 
Delay's office.  Drew would give us enormous visibility in House Republican 
leadership circles, seems trustworthy, and capable of learning most of the 
substance of the energy portfolio.  Drew has strong networking skills, which 
I think would nicely fit with Tom's strategic and technical skills.  The 
second candidate is John Shelk, whom I have known for nearly 15 years.  John 
was the lead Republican staff on the House Energy and Commerce Committee 
under Norm Lent.  John left the Committee in 1992.  Since then John has 
worked in the financial services and gaming industries, where he has enhanced 
his political and Republican networking skills.  John in very short order 
would have extremely strong technical skills, atlhough he has been away from 
the industry for eight years.  I believe both candidates bring different but 
very strong talents to the job.  I have a second opening for an enviromental 
advocate.  I am discussing with Rick the possibility of whether we could 
redirect one of these candidates (probably John) to that slot.   That said, 
please let me know if I should have Nels pursue Andrew.
