Message-ID: <4808015.1075846160454.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 24 Jul 2000 11:52:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: bill.donovan@enron.com
Subject: Re:
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Bill Donovan
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

These are good fixes.  I still think it's important for our security people 
to be able to recognize all of our senior executives and make sure their 
guests get where they are going quickly.


To: Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES
cc: Susan Skarness/HOU/ECT@ECT 
Subject: 

Follow-up

Steve - 

Following up on our conversation Friday, we have advised Cliff Baxter's 
Assistant that effective immediately Cliff and his quests can pass through 
Security on the Plaza, without showing his access card or requiring his 
quests to sign in or identify themselves.  All he needs to do is approach the 
front Reception Desks and asking for entry.  The receptionists will recognise 
Cliff by sight and ensure that he and his quests pass through - without delay 
- by lifting the adjacent rope.

We are asking Cliff to use his badge at the card readers, as per standard 
procedure, when he is entering the building by himself.

We are also refining procedures and upgrading our IT systems/data base @ the 
Reception Desk, to make it easier on a visitor of any employee.  For example 
if you call down to the Plaza Reception Desk and advise that a visitor is 
expected, the receptionist will have a pass prepared so as to eliminate the 
sign in process.  The guest simply has to exchange their business card for 
the visitor pass.  Or if an employee shows their access card at the Reception 
Desk and asks that their guest gain entry, that guest can get a badge without 
signing in.  Again, we ask that the guest exchange their business card for a 
visitor pass.

We are  working on installing a new data base @ the Desk that will pull up a 
digitised photo of the employee (duplicate of what's on their badge) on the 
screen.  This will allow employees to get a temporary access badge without 
showing other ID and will speed process.

Finally, we are testing a small proximity access card which is designed to be 
a duplicate back-up for executives.  It is sized to fit on a key chain and 
works with our standard card readers.

- Bill 
 



