Message-ID: <2379443.1075846164402.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 7 Aug 2000 00:55:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: elizabeth.linnell@enron.com
Subject: Monthly Billing - Detail Class 845 / s100105.xls
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Elizabeth Linnell
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/HOU/EES on 08/07/2000 07:55 
AM ---------------------------


EIS Billing@ENRON
08/04/2000 03:30 PM

	
To:	Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES
cc:	
	
Subject:	Monthly Billing - Detail Class 845 / s100105.xls

Year 2000 changes:
Phone charges:  Phones are being charged to the person's company and cost 
center where possible, otherwise rent as before.  The description will start 
with People\ or Room\ unless it was entered manually at the source.
Data connections:  One connection is being charged for each room instead of 
one connection for each port in a room.

Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for 
telephones, data ports, EDI, Enterprise LAN, Enterprise Help Desk, video 
conferencing, Internet access, email, and other services provided to Enron 
business units by Enron Information Services. 

EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, 
and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T 
calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in 
EB or 3AC.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson 
for this purpose.  

People specific services for employees are billed to the company and cost 
center corresponding to the employee's HR company and department. Video 
conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings 
are based on a company and cost center furnished by the person requesting the 
service.

EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate 
Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha 
phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the HR company and department 
for each employee.  This snapshot is taken at the end of each month for use 
as a source for billing information.  

Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If our billings are incorrect, 
generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting 
Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the 
correct HR department by contacting your HR representative.  If the room 
number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be 
corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes 
Mail ID "Move-Team".