Message-ID: <12893165.1075846179104.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 8 Oct 2000 10:54:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: jeff.dasovich@enron.com
Subject: Re: Nov. 13 UC summit conference on electricity
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Jeff Dasovich
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

I've got a few too many speeches coming up.  You are probably in the best 
position to address this crowd (time for the student to teach the teacher), 
but I'd understand if you think it would be awkward (the we should just 
decline).



	Jeff Dasovich
	10/05/2000 01:23 PM
		
		 To: Tim Belden/HOU/ECT@ECT, skean@enron.com
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Re: Nov. 13 UC summit conference on electricity

Steve:  Let me know if you'd like to discuss.  I like Tim's idea re: maybe 
you should take the slot.   But in my view definitely not Skilling.  I think 
you saw my thoughts about this conference in a previous email exchange with 
Schroeder re: Littlechild.  

Also, they're breaking my arms and legs about sponsoring ($3-5K range).  I 
had a thought that maybe EBS could stream the conference as an in-kind 
contribution---the PR that EBS gets out of streaming might outweigh the cost 
of providing gratis.  I had only raised it as a thought, though, and am 
surprised to see it turn up in print.  

Tim and I had both had Lee as a professor and I've been talking him about 
this conference alot and have no problem delivering whatever the news is.  In 
fact, I had already told them that they shouldn't count on us for this one 
but that we're always interested in working together.

Best,
Jeff



	Tim Belden@ECT
	10/05/2000 01:00 PM
		 
		 To: Jeff Dasovich/NA/Enron@Enron, Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Nov. 13 UC summit conference on electricity

Jeff, I sent this e-mail to Kean last night.  I am fine with your 
recommendation for Skilling to pass on this event.  Do you want to deliver 
the news to Lee.  Do we want to offer you, Steve Kean, or me as an 
alternative?  Personally, I would like to attend but don't have much interest 
in speaking (assuming that they would allow low lifes like you or me to 
speak).  Your call on all of this.  Call bob Badeer with questions about the 
BEEP as I am heading out of town in a couple of hours.


Tim:  I've worked hard with these guys to try to make this conference the 
best that it could be, but it ain't quite there.  So I'd rather keep our 
powder dry and use Skilling at another time.  Not top-shelf enough in my 
view.  If you want to discuss further let me know.

Also, one question:

Is the BEEP stack the constrained supply curve post-adjustment bids?  I have 
that right?
---------------------- Forwarded by Tim Belden/HOU/ECT on 10/05/2000 10:59 AM 
---------------------------
From: Tim Belden on 10/04/2000 06:33 PM
To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
cc:  
Subject: Nov. 13 UC summit conference on electricity

I just received this e-mail from a former professor of mine at Berekely.  
Dasovich knows more about this than I do, so you should definitely talk to 
him.  Do you think that this is something that Skilling should attend?
---------------------- Forwarded by Tim Belden/HOU/ECT on 10/04/2000 06:33 PM 
---------------------------
   
	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.
	
	From:  "Lee S. Friedman" <lfried@uclink4.berkeley.edu>                        
   10/04/2000 03:52 PM
	

To: "Tim Belden" <tim.belden@enron.com>, "Jeff Dasovich" <jdasovic@enron.com>
cc:  
Subject: Nov. 13 UC summit conference on electricity


Jeff and Tim,

Tim, I know Jeff knows all about the conference we are organizing and I hope
you do as well.

Rob, I and the rest of the conference organizers are wondering if you could
help us find out if Jeff Skilling from Enron would be willing to be one of
our panelists? He has been an articulate critic of the current state of our
electricity markets, and we definitely would like the genco perspective
represented.

Naturally we are hoping to get a quick answer because our publicity about
the conference will be going out shortly.

A brief description of the conference is appended below. Please let me know
if you need any additional information.

Thanks very much for your help and advice.
Lee

The summer of San Diego has prompted the School, in collaboration with UC's
Energy Institute and Competition Policy Center, to sponsor a high-level
summit conference on electricity deregulation. The focus, and the audience,
will be national, but heavily informed and influenced by the California
crisis.  The conference will evaluate (1) the wisdom of deregulation and (2)
how the pitfalls encountered so far can be avoided and remedied. The
University will facilitate an open, honest and reasoned exchange between
executive-level players from various perspectives: industry, regulators,
consumers, legislators, academics, and market and system operators.

The format entails two roundtable discussions with six speakers and a
moderator.  During the panel sessions, the speakers will engage in a
debate/dialogue on the current situation in electricity deregulation, where
we have come from, what the future holds, and what solutions lie on the
horizon. Each speaker will have uninterrupted time to speak, followed by Q&A
and discussion.  We expect a live audience of about 200, including a large
press presence.  One sponsor has tentatively offered to provide internet
streaming video services.  We hope to have a balanced group of sponsors
ranging from the American Public Power Association to energy companies.

The speakers are being arranged at this time. We have commitments from:
Loretta Lynch (Chair, CPUC), and PJM CEO Phil Harris. We have a preliminary
acceptance from Steven Littlechild (England's former primary electricity
regulator) and Laura Tyson (former Chair, President's Council of Economic
Advisors and National Economic Council, currently Dean, Haas School of
Business). We have invited FERC Commissioner Curt Hebert, and U.S.
Representative Edward
Markey, executive-level managers from several energy companies and state
legislators. Former DOJ chief economist Carl Shapiro will be on one of the
panels, as will economist Severin Borenstein, Director of UCEI and Professor
of Business and Public Policy. Michael Florio from The Utility Reform
Network (TURN) will be a consumer advocate on one of the panels. Lee
Friedman, economist and Professor of Public Policy, will briefly provide an
introduction to the panel discussions with his talk "Lighting the Stage: The
Electricity of Deregulation."

A dinner for the panelists and organizers will be hosted at UC's Goldman
School of Public Policy following the conference proceedings. We have
reserved rooms for our speakers at Berkeley's landmark Claremont Hotel. We
can reimburse those speakers who request it for coach airfare expenses and
other ordinary local expenses.

Forfurther information, please contact:
Lee S. Friedman
Professor of Public Policy
Goldman School of Public Policy
University of California
2607 Hearst Avenue
Berkeley, CA 94720-7320
Ph:  (510) 642-7513
Fax: (510) 643-9657
email: lfried@uclink4.berkeley.edu









