Message-ID: <25089651.1075843013297.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 31 Oct 2000 01:40:00 -0800 (PST)
From: rcarroll@bracepatt.com
To: jdasovic@enron.com, jsteffe@enron.com, mary.hain@enron.com, smara@enron.com, 
	seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com, cfi1@tca-us.com, 
	ellen@tca-us.com
Subject: San Jose Mercury News - California Officials Investigate Electric
 'Megawatt Laundering'
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Ronald Carroll" <rcarroll@bracepatt.com>
X-To: <jdasovic@enron.com>, <jsteffe@enron.com>, <mary.hain@enron.com>, <smara@enron.com>, <seabron.adamson@frontier-economics.com>, <cfi1@tca-us.com>, <ellen@tca-us.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Jeff_Dasovich_Dec2000\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: DASOVICH-J
X-FileName: jdasovic.nsf

California Officials Investigate Electric 'Megawatt Laundering'
Steve Johnson , San Jose Mercury News, Calif.

( October 31, 2000 )



Oct. 30--While investigating this summer's stunning spike in electricity 
prices, state authorities have heard stories about a curious phenomenon:

On days when the weather is hot, batches of power generated in California are 
sold to other states. A little later in the day, similar amounts of power are 
sold back to California -- but at much higher prices.

The question is, is it the same power? If so, that could be "megawatt 
laundering" -- a multi-company conspiracy to evade California's wholesale 
price cap, which covers power generated in California but not power sold into 
California from elsewhere.

Worried that such transactions could be costing consumers millions of 
dollars, several energy specialists raised concerns about megawatt laundering 
during a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission hearing a month ago in San 
Diego. And earlier this month, state Sen. Steve Peace, D-La Mesa -- who 
helped lead the push to deregulate electricity sales in California -- 
formally asked the commission to investigate the practice, which he termed 
"potentially illegal market coordination."

But an unconfirmed news report last week said the federal agency had 
concluded that generators had not abused the market. And others say concerns 
about megawatt laundering are exaggerated.

Among them is Jan Smutny-Jones, executive director of the Independent Energy 
Producers Association, a power-firm trade group, and chairman of the 
Independent System Operator, which oversees most of California's power grid.

While acknowledging that such laundering is possible, Smutny-Jones said there 
is no evidence it is actually occurring or is widespread.

"This is one of those things that's turning into an urban legend," he said. 
"I don't want to characterize this as a significant problem."

Even some critics of the way power is purchased in California concede that 
most of what has been labeled megawatt laundering probably reflects nothing 
more sinister than the ability of some entrepreneurs to take advantage of a 
good deal when they see one.

Nonetheless, they see evidence that at least some California-produced power 
is being sold out of and back into the state at a higher price. And they 
blame that on loopholes in the system that they say ought to be closed 
because the transactions are helping to drive up the cost of power.

The Independent System Operator "invites this type of activity," said Frank 
Wolak, a Stanford economist who chairs the non-profit corporation's market 
surveillance committee, which has warned of the potential for megawatt 
laundering in at least two reports this year. "The thing that makes all these 
problems go is the fact that the ISO has said, `We'll pay whatever it takes 
to keep the lights on,' and that's screwing consumers big time."

In 1998, when the state's energy markets were deregulated, it was generally 
assumed that opening up the sale of electricity to competition would make 
power less expensive. As a precaution, however, officials at the Independent 
System Operator instituted wholesale price caps, which they lowered twice 
this summer to help keep a lid on costs. On July 1 this year, they reduced 
the cap from $750 per megawatt per hour to $500, one megawatt being 
sufficient power for 1,000 homes. Then, on Aug. 7, they cut it to $250.

Unfortunately, things haven't worked out the way officials had hoped. 
Wholesale prices rose dramatically this year. And while a freeze on retail 
utility rates has temporarily shielded Pacific Gas & Electric Co. customers 
from those soaring costs, home electricity prices have tripled in San Diego, 
where a similar freeze already has come off.

In the process, some generators learned that all it takes to get around the 
state's wholesale price caps is a basic understanding of how the market 
works. One of the best ways to get top dollar, they learned, was to hold off 
selling their electricity until the Independent System Operator issues what 
is known as an out-of-market call for energy, which amounts to an emergency 
request for electricity.

From May through September this year, the overall price of power in the state 
averaged less than $125 per megawatt hour, according to authorities. But over 
the same period, power sold in response to out-of-market calls averaged more 
than $430.

During the summer, when energy use is at a maximum, California typically 
imports about one-fourth of the power it uses from other states. Since power 
generated by firms in other states isn't limited by California's price cap, 
those companies generally are in a better position than California firms to 
make a killing on out-of-market sales. But by cutting a deal with a 
collaborator in another state, energy specialists say, California generators 
also can profit handsomely -- despite the cap.

Here's how:

Say a California generator has 100 megawatts. Instead of selling it in 
California, where the firm can receive no more than $250 per megawatt hour 
under the current cap, it finds a utility, an electricity broker or a 
corporate affiliate with an equal amount of power in another state, such as 
Arizona. Then -- just before an expected heat wave in California, which is 
likely to result in an out-of-market call for power here -- it convinces the 
other firm to do a trade.

Under the deal, the California generator sends its 100 megawatts for one hour 
to the company in Arizona, where there is no price cap, and earns $300 or 
more per megawatt -- for a total of $300,000. In return, the Arizona firm 
ships its 100 megawatts for one hour here. Since that power isn't subject to 
California's cap, it earns perhaps $400 per megawatt -- for a total of 
$400,000.

Presumably, energy specialists say, the two firms then split the $100,000 
difference.

The potential profit from such deals is considerable. Generators in and out 
of California received more than $110 million from out-of-market sales this 
summer, according to the Independent System Operator. But determining if 
megawatt laundering is really happening, how often and who might be 
benefiting, is difficult.

One California investigator said authorities first suspected that megawatt 
laundering was occurring when they noticed that precisely the same amount of 
power was being sold to another state and then sold back into California 
minutes later. But other experts said the evidence has rarely been that 
clear. While hundreds of megawatts is sold into and out of the state on any 
given day, they said, the suspicion that firms were conspiring to sell the 
same power back and forth has stemmed largely from unfounded speculation.

One big problem for investigators trying to learn if the system has been 
abused is that confidentiality rules keep many of the details about these 
electricity transactions private.

"Entities like us and others who may be suffering from the consequences of 
this laundering don't necessarily have the documents" to prove it, said Gary 
Stern, director of market monitoring for Southern California Edison, one of 
the state's three main utilities. "We can only speculate based on things 
we've heard from others about the practice....It's our hope that's one of the 
things that's being examined" by the various federal and state agencies 
investigating this summer's extraordinary rise in California power prices.

Indeed, while some people say megawatt laundering can be substantially 
limited by ending the practice of paying more than the wholesale cap for 
out-of-state power, others argue that it's just as important to eliminate the 
secrecy surrounding electricity transactions.

"I'd like to see more information" made public, said Jim Bushnell, a 
researcher at the University of California Energy Institute in Berkeley, who 
specializes in analyzing the state's energy markets. "There are a lot of 
rumors circulating around this," he said of megawatt laundering, "and it 
would help clarify if this is a serious problem."



-----

To see more of the San Jose Mercury News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, 
go to http://www.sjmercury.com