Message-ID: <11546966.1075846143023.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 6 Sep 1999 07:06:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: elizabeth.linnell@enron.com
Subject: Monthly Billing - Detail Class 845 / s100061.xls
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Elizabeth Linnell
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

---------------------- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/HOU/EES on 09/06/99 02:06 
PM ---------------------------


EIS Billing@ENRON
09/03/99 02:43 PM

	
To:	Steven J Kean/HOU/EES@EES
cc:	
	
Subject:	Monthly Billing - Detail Class 845 / s100061.xls

SAP Impact:  
File names have changed from "b" + company + rc for MSA booking to "s" + cost 
center for SAP.  Other changes have also been implemented.  Please send a 
Notes mail to "Bill Myers" if you notice any problems, particularly if you 
think that they might be conversion or program related.  (I already know 
about the company description for the MSA spreadsheets where companies are 
rebooked to themselves).

Attached  are spreadsheets with the detail supporting the expenses for 
telephones, data ports, EDI, Enterprise LAN, Enterprise Help Desk, video 
conferencing, Internet access, email, and other services provided to Enron 
business units by Enron Information Services.  These expenses are posted in 
MSA Detail Class 845.

EIS billings for items attached to the room, such as phones and data ports, 
and people specific services for contractors, such as LAN ID's and AT&T 
calling cards, are billed to the same company and cost center as room rent in 
EB or 3AC.  For Omaha, EIS uses a phone database maintained by Tammy Anderson 
for this purpose.  

People specific services for employees are billed to the company and cost 
center corresponding to the employee's HR company and department. Video 
conference usage, data circuits, Ardmore usage, EDI, and web site billings 
are based on a company and cost center furnished by the person requesting the 
service.

EIS bills services on a one month lag.  We take a snapshot of the Corporate 
Administrative Services rent file for each room in EB and 3AC, of the Omaha 
phone database for each room in Omaha, and of the HR company and department 
for each employee.  This snapshot is taken at the end of each month for use 
as a source for billing information.  

Please examine these billings for accuracy.  If our billings are incorrect, 
generally speaking either the rent should be corrected by contacting 
Corporate Administrative Services or the person should be moved to the 
correct HR department by contacting your HR representative.  If the room 
number is incorrect on the phone or long distance billings, this may be 
corrected by sending the room number along with the telephone number to Notes 
Mail ID "Move-Team".

If you wish to move EIS charges after to a different company and/or 
department after billings have been processed or if you wish to discuss an 
alternative to using your HR department for people specific billings, please 
send a message to Notes Mail ID "EIS Billing".