Message-ID: <15377587.1075846173597.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 10 Sep 2000 16:20:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: david.merrill@enron.com
Subject: Re: Fletcher School/Enron
Cc: christie.patrick@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: christie.patrick@enron.com
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: David Merrill
X-cc: Christie Patrick
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_Dec2000_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

Thaniks for the note.  Christie is now organizing our university 
relationships, so direct the communication to her.  Thanks again




David Merrill@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
09/09/2000 05:59 AM
To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
cc:  

Subject: Fletcher School/Enron

Dear Steve:   Last month while at my reunion at the Fletcher School of Law 
and Diplomacy
at Tufts University, some of the school officials told me that Enron has 
hired about eight 
Fletcher graduates recently and is happy with them.   The school is also 
happy and wants
to strengthen its relationship with Enron.   They had earlier this year 
contacted a Laura 
Kalmans, Director of Community Development at Enron, to discuss various ideas 
for cooperation 
with Enron that would strengthen our capacity in environmental matters and 
give the students
exposure to real world issues, but nothing happened and they lost contact.  

They asked me who they should contact to find out how to pursue this and I 
said 
I thought it might be you or someone under you.    They now want to send a 
letter
to someone at Enron on this proposal.  It is OK if it is addressed to you or 
should I tell
them another name?   Please advise me how to steer them in the right 
direction.    

Many thanks.  David Merrill

 
---------------------- Forwarded by David Merrill/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT on 
09/09/2000 06:33 PM ---------------------------


Laura Karch <Laura.Karch@tufts.edu> on 09/05/2000 03:15:08 PM
To: david.merrill@enron.com
cc:  

Subject: Fletcher School/Enron


Dear Ambassador Merrill,

I understand that you and Betsy Ginsberg had a conversation at reunion last 
month about a possible
partnership between the Fletcher School and Enron.  Thank you for generously 
offering to help us
explore this connection.  We believe there are strong synergies between 
Professor Bill Moomaw's
International Environment and Resource Policy program and Enron's business 
model.  There is
currently a strong recruiting relationship between Enron and Fletcher; there 
are nine Fletcherites
at Enron at this time.  I'm confident that our strong recruiting relationship 
is a solid first step
from which to launch an even stronger partnership.

In order to explore expanding this relationship Ms. Elise Kalmans, Director 
of Community
Development, agreed to arrange a meeting for Bill and me last spring.  
Unfortunately, the scheduling
did not work out, and Ms. Kalmans then began a maternity leave so we had 
trouble identifying a new
point of contact.

I appreciate your suggestion that we aim to work through Stephen Kean.  As 
Senior Vice President for
Public and Environmental and Government Affairs, he does sound like the ideal 
contact with whom to
discuss Professor Moomaw's program and its students. How do you suggest we 
proceed?  Should we send
a letter from Interim Dean Trachtman to ask if Mr. Kean would be willing to 
meet with Professor
Moomaw?  May I mention that you suggested we write him?

At Betsy's suggestion, I have attached the presentation outline we prepared 
for Enron, along with
the letter we originally mailed to Elise.  I would be very interested in any 
suggestions you may
have.  If you have any trouble opening the powerpoint file or word document, 
please let me know and
I would be happy to mail or fax them.  Thank you again for your kind offer of 
assistance.

Sincerely,

Laura Karch
Associate Director, External Relations
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy
617-627-2720

 - IERP enron.ppt
 - enron Kalmans.doc



