Message-ID: <17391493.1075847591366.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2001 13:28:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: elizabeth.linnell@enron.com
Subject: Re: Government Affairs Meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Elizabeth Linnell
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

Go ahead.


From: Elizabeth Linnell on 04/25/2001 04:53 PM
To: Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
cc:  

Subject: Government Affairs Meeting

Do you mind if the professionals in my group attend?  5 people (assuming they 
all want to go - Margo, Miyung, Linda, Lynnette and Earlene) each at $190 for 
airfare, $380 for two hotel nights, plus shuttle services and misc expenses.  
I'm always encouraging my group to interact with Rick's group, as Gov't 
Affairs is our primary customer base.  

I'm not planning to attend the meeting.

Thanks!
----- Forwarded by Elizabeth Linnell/NA/Enron on 04/25/2001 04:50 PM -----

	Ginger Dernehl
	04/25/2001 04:31 PM
		 
		 To: Elizabeth Linnell/NA/Enron@Enron
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Government Affairs Meeting

Well, the time has arrived for me to let you know what is in store for 
everyone at the next Government Affairs department meeting on Thursday, June 
14.  The meeting will take place at:

The Omni Interlocken
500 Interlocken Blvd.
Broomfield, Colorado  80021
Phone# 303-438-6600
Fax# 303-464-3252
Check-in time  3:00 p.m.
Check-out time  12:00 p.m. (Noon)

The  Government Affairs meeting will take place on Thursday, June 14 and will 
begin at 8:00 am and will conclude by 11:30 am.  I have arranged for box 
lunches to be served after the meeting.   After the meeting, we will have the 
remainder of the day for some fun activities, along with a buffet dinner 
served that evening to complete the day (on-site dinner location TBD).  

Block of Rooms - A block of rooms have been reserved for Government Affairs.  
I will be turning in a rooming list to the hotel next week so, I  would like 
to know by Friday, April 27 your plans to attend the meeting.   

Shuttle Service -  See attachment for shuttle times.  Please note, a return 
reservation from the hotel to the airport is required.  Please contact the 
Concierge to arrange for shuttle service.

Colorado Weather - For the month of June, you can expect the 
following:         
High's - 80.............Low's - 52

Flights from Houston - I have checked with TAP for roundtrip flights from 
Houston - Denver, Denver - Houston and an exceptionally great 
(non-refundable) fare of $190.94 is available.  However, fares are not 
guaranteed until actually booked.   Let's book early!!!!!

The activities to choose from are as follows:  Please let me know by May 4 
your choice of activity!!!!!!

Whitewater Rafting - A bus will leave the Omni Interlocken Resort at 2:00pm 
to head for an afternoon of exciting adventure on Colorado's Clear Creek.  
The Arkansas River is one of the most popular whitewater adventures anywhere, 
combining spectacular scenery and action packed rapids.  Teamwork is the name 
of the game as your team paddles down these tumbling cascades.  Continuous 
class III and IV rapids will thrill guests throughout the run. Drop over 
Nomad, surge through the Phoenix Holes and take on the class IV climax, the 
Outer Limits.  Good physical condition and the ability to swim are 
recommended.  The group will have three thrilling hours on the river and will 
return to the Omni by 6:15pm.

Chautauqua Park Hiking Adventure - One of the most popular access points for 
mountain hiking trails in Boulder is Chautauqua Park. The focal point is the 
100-year-old dining hall.  The Colorado Chautauqua is one of only four of the 
original Chautauquas still operating in America, as opposed to when thousands 
dotted the nation and culturally enriched rural people in the early 1900s. 
The tour includes: transportation, professional guide service, two hours of 
guided hiking - total time for excursion is 4 hours. (Dress code: Shorts or 
hiking attire, appropriate footwear, sunglasses, sunscreen and hats).  
Departure time and return will be relayed at a later date.

Spa Services -  The Spa at Omni Interlocken Resort offers a number of spa 
services (massages, facial & skin care treatments, body treatments or nail 
services, to name a few).  If you are interested in this as an activity, 
please let me know and I will fax a detailed list of their services.  You 
will need to call the spa and schedule your own appointment if this is the 
activity you choose.

Golf -  For the golf enthusiasts, an afternoon of golf at the Omni 
Interlocken 27-hole championship golf course which stretches out over 300 
acres of verdant fairways is another activity to select from.  Spectacular 
panoramic views from three 9-hole courses, which feature more than 400 feet 
in elevation changes.  If this is the activity of choice please respond via 
e:mail and I will add you to the list.  The game of choice will be "best 
ball" play.

Biking -  Scenic bike paths are located near the hotel for those with 
interest.  If this is your choice of activity, please let me know and I will 
reserve a bike and map for you enjoyment.

After reviewing the choices above, please select an activity you prefer to 
take part in.  Due to the fact that our group is so large, (which makes it 
more difficult to coordinate activities) once you select an activity, we ask 
that you not change your selection.  So, please talk to your colleagues ahead 
of time before making your choice.

Thanks and don't hesitate to call me if you have any questions.

Gngr


 - SuperShuttle.doc
 - Directions from DIA with map.doc




