Message-ID: <7327829.1075847624706.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2001 04:37:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: mark.muller@enron.com
Subject: Enron Opportunity
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Mark S Muller
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

any interest?
----- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 03/02/2001 12:42 PM -----

	Rosalee Fleming
	03/02/2001 09:08 AM
		 
		 To: Mark Metts/NA/Enron, Steven J Kean/NA/Enron@Enron
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Enron Opportunity

Hi Mark and Steve -

Chad said he has sent this to quite a few people, so it might be overkill, 
but thought I'd send to you.  He has sent to Jeff, Mike McConnell (who told 
him he's forwarding to Dan Reck, who is in charge of the new freight 
business), Lou Pai and Andrew Miles, Tom White and David Cox.
---------------------- Forwarded by Rosalee Fleming/Corp/Enron on 03/02/2001 
08:28 AM ---------------------------
   
	Enron Energy Services
	
	From:  Chad Tipton @ EES                           03/01/2001 06:12 PM
	

To: Kenneth Lay/Corp/Enron@ENRON
cc:  
Subject: Enron Opportunity

Ken,

My name is Chad Tipton.  I am currently a Development Support Manager with 
EES in the Integrated Asset Management (IAM).   Recently, I  had the good 
fortune to meet, Ron Hosmer.  He represents a company called IdleAire 
Technologies, Inc..  IdleAire is a startup company started in 1999.   
IdleAire has developed a system to eliminate truckdrivers from having to idle 
their trucks while on long haul overnight stops.  Their plan is to electrify 
truckstops and install remote HVAC units to eliminate truck idling.  Also, 
these units provide cable TV and internet services.  They have already 
piloted the technology in several truckstops in the Knoxville, TN area.

IdleAire's  goal is to: 

"........evolve the nation's truck stops and travel centers into the largest 
truck stop electrification network in the world. We are taking truck stop 
electrification to the next level. Our travel center conversions provide 
heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) at every parking space. We 
also provide drivers in-cab telephone, Internet and television."

Idle Air has caught the attention of many interest groups in Washington, 
D.C.  Ron tells me that they have already gained support from Tennessee 
congressmen, including Jimmy Duncan and  Van Hilleary.   Also, former House 
Speaker, Newt Gingrich is on the board of directors of IdleAire 
Technologies.  These individuals support this technology because it reduces 
emissions and helps state quality for CMAQ funds.  

I had mentioned to Ron, that I worked for Enron and informed him about what 
we do.  He and I both felt that Enron may be interested in developing a 
strategic partnership to take their technology to market.   Ron said that 
they are looking for a strategic partner with energy related experience and 
the capital to invest in this project.  

Enron would benefit in several ways:

1.  Greater than average returns.

2.  Increased publicity and recognition in Enron's environmental role.  (EPA 
Energy Star Label, EPA Climate Protection Award, etc....)
 
3.  Increase markets for electricity and possibly gas.

4.  Maintain Enron's title of innovation leader.

5.  Open a whole new market for the energy services group. (EES)  Long term 
maintenance contract, commodities, etc....

6.  Open a new market for the broadband services group. (EBS)  Videos on 
demand.

I believe this opportunity is very synergistic with Enron's business model.  
If you would be interested in talking with Ron, I would be happy to introduce 
him to you.  They have a  very comprehensive business plan that lays out 
their business in detail.   I have arranged for him to provide us with an 
executive summary of the business.  You can also find out more about the 
company by visiting their website at:

www.idleaire.com

Thank you  for your time.

Chad Tipton
5-5310


