Message-ID: <1934922.1075847628328.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 06:15:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: kelly.kimberly@enron.com
Subject: US Visit for GoodCorporation
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Kelly Kimberly
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

----- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 02/28/2001 02:14 PM -----

	Vicky Pryce <Vicky@goodcorporation.com>
	02/26/2001 01:03 PM
		 
		 To: "'skean@enron.com'" <skean@enron.com>
		 cc: "'michael@zilkha.com'" <michael@zilkha.com>, Jo White 
<Jo@goodcorporation.com>
		 Subject: US Visit for GoodCorporation

Dear Steven

I know Michael Zilkha has written to you already but I wanted to thank you
too for the time you spent with us last Friday and the very valuable
insights you gave us. I hope that I have given you most of the information
you need to understand our concept and to be able to discuss it with your
colleagues. We agreed that on my return to the UK I would set out how Enron
might be involved at this stage and be one of the first US firms to pioneer
the idea and become a GoodCorporation network member able to display the
GoodCorporation trademark and start conversing with other members. Those
members could be private companies, public sector entities or government
departments, trade associations, NGOs etc.

As we discussed the GoodCorporation Charter and processes are near
completion . We are in the process of starting our pilot verifications which
will be done by PwC, KPMG, Ernst & Young, Intertek, SGS and Bureau
Veritas.We are also setting up an Accreditation Body ( which is being
modelled on the Forestry Stewardship Council)  to oversee the annual
verification process. 

The pilot programme provides companies with an excellent opportunity to have
a low risk way of trying out the process and seeing if it works in their
organisation. They can submit the whole or a small part of the organisation.
Pilot companies pay for the verifiers' time only and the verifiers are
giving their time at cost ($750/ day.) The pilot itself will take the form
of a preliminary scoping meeting in which the verifier will take the company
through the evidence (policies and procedures) that need to be in place in
order to pass the GoodCorporation charter. The meeting will decide who needs
to be interviewed, in which locations and therefore the number of days
involved. As the emphasis is on verifying policies and the way they are
implemented in the workplace rather than a full scale audit of impact, the
number of days involved should be relatively limited.  During the actual
verification, the verifier will check for the evidence by reviewing
documentation provided by the company, in addition to a series of meetings
with the relevant people, such as the HR Director, Environmental Manager,
Finance Directors and customer-facing staff. Assuming it is successful, the
piloted part of the company can then become a member of the network if they
so choose. 

It would be great to have Enron involved in this early piloting. Given your
current policies and ethics I wouild be surprised if the charter posed any
real problem for you . It could also be a useful supply chain tool for you
to encourage your suppliers not only to say they behave in the manner you
wish them to behave but also demonstrate this behaviour to you and the
outside world in a transparent fashion. Please get back to me if you require
any further clarification and of course I and my colleagues would be
delighted to meet whoever else you need to get involved before a decision is
made.

Again, many thanks for your time and I was delighted that you were
enthusiastic about our concept.

With very best regards

Vicky Pryce

Chairman, GoodCorporation
