Message-ID: <4811411.1075847634231.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 14 Feb 2001 06:28:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.kean@enron.com
To: linda.robertson@enron.com
Subject: Re: Confidential --CFTC Chair
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven J Kean
X-To: Linda Robertson
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Steven_Kean_June2001_1\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: KEAN-S
X-FileName: skean.nsf

do not circulate; fyi
----- Forwarded by Steven J Kean/NA/Enron on 02/14/2001 02:28 PM -----

	WGramm@aol.com
	02/14/2001 07:58 AM
		 
		 To: Steven.J.Kean@enron.com
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Re: Confidential --CFTC Chair

Hi Steve, 
    Folks love Newsome, and I think he's very nice and appears to be very 
free market.  Spears, the other Republican appointee is not at all free 
market, in my view.  I would not like this to mentioned anywhere else, but I 
have found that the farm reps on the Commission may sound deregulatory but 
are not, and have been really troublesome without a good free market person 
on board.  And there are no truly free market persons on  board at the 
Commission (every single other agricultural rep that I worked with on the 
Commission were trouble, even though they claimed to be deregulatory -- and 
they were far worse before I got there and after I left.)  
    I visited with Newsome a day before Inauguration, and I was appalled at 
what they were planning to do concerning agency structure -- that would have 
elevated the regulatory lawyers and diminished the role of the economists at 
the agency.  Misguided and showed to me a lack of understanding of how 
organizational structures can affect what comes out of an agency.  
    I am often at odds with "the industry view" regarding CFTC issues.  I 
don't think the futures exchanges, who have a lot of power, necessarily are 
pro-competition; and many of the non-exchange folks who lobby on CFTC issues 
are Washington or New York (Democrat - which is why they want to involve Ken 
at this level) lawyers who do not understand markets and who are more 
interested in being able to claim influence or impact.  The CFTC is in awful 
shape -- the quality of staff is horrendous, and the Commission is relying on 
some of the worst people for their policy work (same folks that Brooksley 
Born used, same folks who have advocated more regulation of the OTC market 
for years).  Many quality folks do not want the job as Chairman because it's 
been such a backwater.  I am looking for some good folks.  Have  at least one 
person who would be good at that job.  And it's not Newsome.  Please do not 
share this information with the usual folks, as they hate me anyway (I'm too 
free market and have argued against their "fixes").  Sorry for this scathing 
review, but this is an important appointment.  Wendy
