Message-ID: <668222.1075863672930.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 27 Sep 2000 05:26:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: david.delainey@enron.com
To: david.oxley@enron.com
Subject: Confidential - New Procedures to be introduced by ENA OTC for Exec
 Employment Agreements and Hiring of Commercial Staff below VP into ENA
Cc: mark.frevert@enron.com, john.lavorato@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: mark.frevert@enron.com, john.lavorato@enron.com
X-From: David W Delainey
X-To: David Oxley
X-cc: Mark Frevert, John J Lavorato
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \David_Delainey_Dec2000\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: Delainey-D
X-FileName: ddelain.nsf

David, i agree in principle with this process.  I assume that you and your 
team will implement.  Like we spoke about, I do not see a need to widely 
distribute this through the commercial organization.  I would just implement.

Regards
Delainey
---------------------- Forwarded by David W Delainey/HOU/ECT on 09/27/2000 
12:24 PM ---------------------------


David Oxley
09/26/2000 01:55 PM
To: David W Delainey/HOU/ECT@ECT, John J Lavorato/Corp/Enron@Enron, Kay 
Chapman/HOU/ECT@ECT, Kimberly Hillis/HOU/ECT@ect
cc: Mark Frevert/NA/Enron@Enron, Cindy Skinner/HOU/ECT@ECT, Sheila 
Knudsen/Corp/Enron@ENRON, Sheila Walton/HOU/ECT@ECT, Michelle 
Cash/HOU/ECT@ECT 
Subject: Confidential - New Procedures to be introduced by ENA OTC for Exec 
Employment Agreements and Hiring of Commercial Staff below VP into ENA  

This would appear to be final draft. Dave/John if you are happy, perhaps you 
can ask Kay or Kim to send out under ENA OTC header to distribution list 
below.

David



To: ENA VP's and MD's 
CC: Olson, Frevert, McMahon, Bowen, McConnell, Shankman
From: ENA OTC

Re: Confidential - New Procedures to be introduced by ENA OTC for Exec 
Employment Agreements and Hiring of Commercial Staff Below VP into ENA

Effective immediately we have asked the ENA HR department to implement the 
following changes to procedures to assist us in managing these two very 
important processes, more consistently and effectively:

Hiring of all Commercial Managers or Directors (VP process will remain as is)
Business Unit leads and MD's will remain responsible for developing and 
pursuing speculative talent for their groups and, within their budgets, will 
also remain responsible for managing their overall headcount.
The HR department will continue to support this effort by focusing on 
providing each of you with a flow of speculative resumes which you should 
spend time each week reviewing and providing feedback on so that this 
pipeline can be refined and better targeted.
The interviewing process for all Commercial Managers and Directors should be 
very rigorous and should include at least 2 interviews by VP's in addition to 
the sponsoring Business Unit lead plus a minimum of 3 senior individuals 
within the sponsoring group (ie total of 6 in most cases).
Effective immediately, once the sponsoring group lead has completed their 
interviewing process and would like to extend an offer of employment, the 
candidate must be interviewed by the ENA OTC, before an offer of employment 
will be released by the HR department. No candidates should be referred to 
the ENA OTC for interview before the sponsoring group has concluded and 
resolved  ALL issues surrounding whether they themselves wish to hire the 
candidate.
Since any offer of employment at Commercial Manager or Director will now be 
contingent upon approval by the ENA OTC, candidates expectations should be 
managed to ensure they appreciate this final interview will be necessary.
John Lavorato has agreed to conduct the majority of these interviews, which 
will be co-ordinated via your HR representative. Where the candidate is out 
of town, these will be conducted via telephone.

Executive Employment Agreement Process for Commercial Staff
Effective immediately, the process for identifying and negotiating Executive 
Employment Agreements for Commercial staff at ENA will be modified as follows:
For all Commercial staff, the sponsoring Business Unit lead or Managing 
Director, should agree in principle the need for a contract with John 
Lavorato of the ENA OTC. This request should be by either email or voicemail 
and should include the following information: (1) Name, (2) Level (3) 
Business focus and/or project (4) Their latest 2 PRC results (5) The reason 
or justification for offering them a contract.
In any other instance (ie non-commercial employees), the sponsoring BU lead 
or MD should contact David Oxley, Wholesale Group VP for HR for direction.
Once the ENA OTC has approved in principle the negotiation of a contract, 
your HR representative listed below will assist you in preparing draft 
financial terms on the familiar contract request form.
Before a draft contract will be prepared by the ENA legal team, the financial 
terms (the request form in other words) must be approved by John Lavorato in 
the ENA OTC. In the event of a tight deadline, John may approve the two steps 
described here at 1 and 4 simultaneously by email or voicemail.
Any subsequent changes in terms must also be approved by the ENA OTC before a 
fresh draft will be produced.

The following HR Representatives will assist you with these new procedures:

Power Trading  - Kim Melodick  57273
Gas Trading  - Jeanie Slone  53847
West Power  - Amy Fitzpatrick  Portland
West Orgin  - Amy Fitzpatrick  Portland
East Orgin  - Fran Mayes  37211
M&A, Principle Inv - Dave Hill  34218
Upstream Orig  - Dave Hill  34218  
Capital Services - Dave Hill  34218 
Generation Assets - Dave Hill  34218
Mexico   - Dave Hill  34218 
East Coast Power - Dave Hill  34218
Canada (Trading/Orig) - Dawn Doucet  Calgary
Energy Op's  - Sheila Walton  30649
BAR   - Sheila Walton  30649
Legal   - Sheila Walton  30649
Comp Analysis  - Sheila Walton  30649
Research  - Sheila Walton  30649





