Message-ID: <20625717.1075857797770.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 13 Dec 2000 06:03:00 -0800 (PST)
From: thane.twiggs@enron.com
To: jeffery.ader@enron.com, mark.bernstein@enron.com, scott.healy@enron.com, 
	janelle.scheuer@enron.com, tom.dutta@enron.com, dana.davis@enron.com, 
	paul.broderick@enron.com, chris.dorland@enron.com, 
	gautam.gupta@enron.com, michael.brown@enron.com, 
	john.llodra@enron.com, george.wood@enron.com, joe.gordon@enron.com, 
	stephen.plauche@enron.com, jennifer.stewart@enron.com, 
	david.guillaume@enron.com, tom.may@enron.com, 
	robert.stalford@enron.com, jeffrey.miller@enron.com, 
	narsimha.misra@enron.com, joe.quenet@enron.com, 
	paul.thomas@enron.com, ricardo.perez@enron.com, 
	kevin.presto@enron.com, sarah.novosel@enron.com, 
	christi.nicolay@enron.com
Subject: ISO-NE failure to mitigate ICAP market -- Release of ISO NE
 confidential information
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Thane Twiggs
X-To: Jeffery Ader, Mark Bernstein, Scott Healy, Janelle Scheuer, Tom Dutta, Dana Davis, Paul J Broderick, Chris Dorland, Gautam Gupta, Michael Brown, John Llodra, George Wood, Joe Gordon, Stephen Plauche, Jennifer N Stewart, David Guillaume, Tom May, Robert Stalford, Jeffrey Miller, Narsimha Misra, Joe Quenet, Paul D Thomas, Ricardo Perez, Kevin M Presto, Sarah Novosel, Christi L Nicolay
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \Joseph_Quenet_Dec2000\Notes Folders\All documents
X-Origin: Quenet-J
X-FileName: jquenet.nsf

The New England Conference of Public Utilities Commissioners (NECUPUC) filed 
an Answer if Support of the Motion of the Maine Public Utilities Commission 
for Disclosure of Information.
NECUPUC supports the request for the release of the unredacted copies of 
ISO-NE's September 21, 2000 Answer in this case.  In the alternative, they 
would ask that the Commission provide to the regulators that are parties to 
the proceeding unredacted copies of the ISO's September 21, 2000 Answer 
subject to an appropriate protective order.



Duke Energy North America (DENA) filed an Answer that opposes the MPUC 
request for public information.

DENA argues that only a  three month lag in the release of confidential 
information is impermissible under a prior FERC ruling in the NSTAR Services 
Co. case which set out a six-month lag rule for the release of information.
Their second argument was that the request seeks information for all NEPOOL 
markets and not just the ICAP market which is subject to the suit.
If the FERC authorizes the release of confidential information, then it 
should be subject to a protective order which contains the following:
The information may only be used for the purposes of this docket.
Only specifically named "reviewing Reps associated with the MPUC may review 
the information.
The confidential materials may not be removed from the NE-ISO's premises.
The reviewing rep must execute a nondisclosure certificate.


Answer to the MPUC's Motion for Disclosure of Information from Northeast 
Utilities Service Company and Select Energy and request for expedited 
commission action.  NUSCO and Select Energy Support MPUC's request for 
disclosure of information that the ISO has filed under seal, but opposes the 
selective disclosure of this information to the MPUC and other regulatory 
commissions and not other participants.   NUSCO and Select Energy request 
expedited action due the financial implications and there is also 
considerable uncertainty regarding prices in the residual ICAP market in 
January, February and March of 2000 due to the suspended settlement pending 
Commission guidance.

