Message-ID: <10918271.1075863428471.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 26 Jun 2001 10:01:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: j.kaminski@enron.com
To: vkaminski@aol.com
Subject: FW: EnTouch Newsletter
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Kaminski, Vince J </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=VKAMINS>
X-To: 'vkaminski@aol.com'
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Folder: \VKAMINS (Non-Privileged)\Kaminski, Vince J\Sent Items
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: VKAMINS (Non-Privileged).pst



 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Enron Announcements/Corp/Enron@ENRON [mailto:IMCEANOTES-Enron+20Announcements_Corp_Enron+40ENRON@ENRON.com]  On Behalf Of ENA Public Relations@ENRON
Sent:	Thursday, June 21, 2001 11:11 PM
To:	En Touch Newsletter List@ENRON
Subject:	EnTouch Newsletter


 


BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS

East Power Origination
On Friday, June 15, the Development Review Committee for Deerfield Beach, Florida, unanimously approved the 510 megawatt peaking power plant proposed for their city.  This approval followed on the heels of approval of the Developer's Agreement by the Deerfield Beach City Commission on Thursday, June 14.

Enron Industrial Markets
On Friday, June 8 Enron Industrial Markets closed transactions with Huntco Inc. under which EIM will provide inventory management services and will eventually provide more than 600,000 tons per year of hot-rolled, cold-rolled and galvanized steel products to Huntco Steel. The EIM project team developed a creative, 15-year structure that enhances Huntco's liquidity, reduces working capital requirements, and hedges their inventory position against directional price risk.  

In addition, EIM structured the acquisition of Huntco's cold mill and certain coil pickling operations.  A special purpose vehicle funded by third party equity now owns the assets, which continue to be operated by Huntco under an O&M agreement.  As part of the transaction, EIM purchased a 20-year call option on capacity at the cold mill located in Blytheville, Arkansas.  

These transactions with Huntco signal a fundamental change in the way steel is bought and sold in the United States.  They give Enron immediate access to physical steel and position Enron geographically to serve the steel industry in a variety of ways. Consummation of the Huntco transactions would not have been possible without the contributions of multiple Enron groups who enhanced value to Enron while significantly mitigating risk.


IN THE NEWS

"Mario Max Yzaguirre, a former Enron executive, was appointed Wednesday by Gov. Rick Perry to the state agency that is overseeing electricity deregulation in Texas.  Yzaguirre was named to replace Judy Walsh on the three-member Public Utility Commission of Texas.  Yzaguirre, of South Padre Island, recently resigned as president of Enron's Mexico operations.  He formerly worked as a lawyer at Houston's Vinson and Elkins." -- Houston Chronicle, June 14


WELCOME
New Hires
EIM   - Linyue Xu
ENA  - Candice Kao, Jason Loup
NEPCO - Victor Wirick, E.J. Mohr, John McCorkle, Mairvic MacDonald, Heather Coffey, Larry Brady, Cindy Olson, William King, Danny Wheeler, July Astengo, Tara An, Matthew Fontaine
Transfers (to or within)
ENA - LaDonna Finnels-Neal, Margaret Daffin, Michael Newlin, Jay Blaine, Diane Cook, Anrew Greer, Troy Denetsosie, Paulita Olvera, Patty Deas, Steven McCarrel, Mary Cilia, Bobbi Tessandori, Luis Mendez
EIM - Monika Causholli, 
EGM - Felecia Russell, Sam Niness, Wayne Byargeon, Fotios Economou
NEPCO - Robert Woolf, Gary Franke, Richard Stephens, John Taylor, Charles Clarkson, Albert Franch, Kerry Lockstedt, Danielle Shafer, Robin Carpenter, John Wilson, Charles Seal


NUGGETS & NOTES

Congratulations to Lisa and Tim McKone, director in Steel Origination. They are the proud parents of a healthy baby boy, William David McKone. He was born on Sunday, June 17th and weighed 9 lbs. 6 oz.

Travel tip of the week:
Enron has negotiated preferred rates at selected hotel in domestic and international cities. Please visit travel.enron.com and a search engine will assist you in finding hotels with preferred rates. If you are a frequent traveler to a specific city and your preferred hotel is not listed, please contact Tracey Ramsey and efforts will be made to negotiate a preferred rate with that hotel.
	Preferred Hotels - short list
	San Francisco
	    Hilton & Towers			$209
	    Holiday Inn - Financial District 	  169 
	Portland
	     Portland Marriott			  109
	     Riverplace Hotel			  155
	New York City
	     Plaza Hotel				  265
	     New York Palace			  330


EnronOnline Statistics
	Below are the latest figures for EnronOnline as of June 21, 2001
	
		*  Total Life to Date Transactions > 1,105,000
		*  Life to Date Notional Value of Transactions > $660 billion


LEGAL STUFF
The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries.  It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.


<Embedded Paintbrush Picture>